performance.now(), performance.timeOrigin (#10710)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: content/workers/runtime-apis/performance.md

---
pcx_content_type: configuration

> title: Performance & Timers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Performance and Timers
```

---

# Performance

## Background

> The Workers Runtime supports a subset of the [Performance API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Performance), used to measure timing and performance and timing of subrequests and other operations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Workers runtime supports a subset of the [`Performance` API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Performance), used to measure timing and performance and timing of subrequests and other operations.
```

### `performance.now()`

> The [`performance.now()` method](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Performance/now) returns timestamp in milliseconds, representing the time elapsed since `performance.timeOrigin`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [`performance.now()` method](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Performance/now) returns timestamp in milliseconds, representing the time elapsed since `performance.timeOrigin`.
```

> When Workers are deployed to Cloudflare, as a security measure to [mitigate against Spectre attacks](/workers/learning/security-model/#step-1-disallow-timers-and-multi-threading), APIs that return timers, including [`performance.now()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Performance/now) and [`Date.now()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Date/now), only advance or increment after I/O occurs. Consider the followoing examples:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When Workers are deployed to Cloudflare, as a security measure to [mitigate against Spectre attacks](/workers/learning/security-model/#step-1-disallow-timers-and-multi-threading), APIs that return timers, including [`performance.now()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Performance/now) and [`Date.now()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Date/now), only advance or increment after I/O occurs. Consider the following examples:
```

```typescript
---

> header: Time is "frozen" — start will have the exact same value as end.

Reviewer: We don't use "" in technical documentation (other than special cases like `"strings"`). Could we remove these "" or rephrase to the technical meaning?

Author: ```suggestion
header: Time is frozen — start will have the exact same value as end.
```

---
const start = performance.now();
for (let i = 0; i < 1e6; i++) {
  // do expensive work
}
const end = performance.now();
const timing = end - start; // 0
```

```typescript
---
header: Time advances, because a subrequest has occurred between start and end.
---
const start = performance.now();
const response = await fetch("https://developers.cloudflare.com/");
const end = performance.now();
const timing = end - start; // duration of the subrequest to developers.cloudflare.com
```

> This means you can use the `performance.now()` or `Date.now()` APIs in order to measure the timing of a subrequest, fetching a key from KV, an object from R2, or any other form of I/O in your Worker.

Reviewer: Is there a more descriptive word or phrase that can be used here other than "this"?

Is this sentence saying that you are measuring the time of:
1) a subrequest
2) the time of fetching a key...
3) the time of __ an object from R2
4) the time of I/O...

?

Author: ```suggestion
By wrapping a subrequest in calls to `performance.now()` or `Date.now()` APIs, you can measure the timing of a subrequest, fetching a key from KV, an object from R2, or any other form of I/O in your Worker.
```

In local development, however, timers will increment regardless of whether I/O happens or not. This means that if you need to measure timing of a piece of code that is CPU intensive, that does not involve I/O, you can run your Worker locally, via [Wrangler](/workers/wrangler/), which uses the open-source Workers runtime, [workerd](https://github.com/cloudflare/workerd) — the same runtime that your Worker runs in when deployed to Cloudflare.

### `performance.timeOrigin`

The [`performance.timeOrigin()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Performance/timeOrigin) API is a read-only property that returns a baseline timestamp to base other measurements off of.

> In the Workers Runtime, calling `timeOrigin()` returns 0.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the Workers runtime, calling `timeOrigin()` returns 0.
```
